# MCI-Risk-Factors
Syntax and code for manuscript: Exploration of salient risk factors involved in MCI

Abstract for the manuscript 

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a prevalent and complex condition among older adults that often progresses into Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Although MCI affects individuals differently, there are specific indicators of risk commonly associated with the development of MCI. The present study explored the prevalence of seven established MCI risk categories within a large sample of older adults with and without a diagnosis of MCI. We explored trends across the different diagnostic groups and extracted the most salient risk factors related to MCI using partial least squares. Neuropsychological risk categories showed the largest differences across groups, with the cognitively unimpaired groups outperforming the MCI groups on all measures. ApolipoproteinE4 (ApoE4) carriers were significantly more common among the more severe MCI group, while ApoE4 non-carriers were more common in the healthy controls. Participants with subjective and objective cognitive impairment were trending towards AD-like cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) biomarker levels. Increased age, being male, and having fewer years of education were identified as important risk factors of MCI. Higher CSF tau level was correlated with ApoE4 carrier status, age, and a decrease in the ability to carry out daily activities across all diagnostic groups. Amyloid beta1-42 CSF concentration was positively correlated with cognitive and memory performance and non-ApoE4 carrier status regardless of diagnostic status. Unlike previous research, poor cardiovascular health or being female had no relation to MCI.  Altogether, the results highlighted risk factors that were specific to persons with MCI, findings that will inform future research in healthy aging, MCI, and AD.
